## Nov. 23
1. [Resolving the Dust-to-Metals Ratio and CO-to-H2 Conversion Factor in the Nearby Universe](https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.10561)

* I-Da Chiang et al.

We investigate the relationship between the dust-to-metals ratio (D/M) and the local interstellar medium environment at ~2 kpc resolution in five nearby galaxies: IC342, M31, M33, M101, and NGC628. A modified blackbody model with a broken power-law emissivity is used to model the dust emission from 100 to 500 um observed by Herschel. We utilize the metallicity gradient derived from auroral line measurements in HII regions whenever possible. Both archival and new CO rotational line and HI 21 cm maps are adopted to calculate gas surface density, including new wide field CO and HI maps for IC342 from IRAM and the VLA, respectively. We experiment with several prescriptions of CO-to-H2 conversion factor, and compare the resulting D/M-metallicity and D/M-density correlations, both of which are expected to be non-negative from depletion studies. The D/M is sensitive to the choice of the conversion factor. The conversion factor prescriptions based on metallicity only yield too much molecular gas in the center of IC342 to obtain the expected correlations. Among the prescriptions tested, the one that yields the expected correlations depends on both metallicity and surface density. The 1-σ range of the derived D/M spans 0.40-0.58. Compared to chemical evolution models, our measurements suggest that the dust growth time scale is much shorter than the dust destruction time scale. The measured D/M is consistent with D/M in galaxy-integrated studies derived from infrared dust emission. Meanwhile, the measured D/M is systematically higher than the D/M derived from absorption, which likely indicates a systematic offset between the two methods.

dust mass: FIR SED fitting.

gas mass: M<sub>gas</sub> = M<sub>atom</sub> (HI 21cm) + M<sub>mol</sub> (CO*𝛼<sub>CO</sub>)


2. [Faint Quasars Live in the Same Number Density Environments as Lyman Break Galaxies at z ~ 4](https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.10194)

* Hisakazu Uchiyama et al.

Characterizing high-z quasar environments is key to understanding the co-evolution of quasars and the surrounding galaxies. To restrict their global picture, we statistically examine the g-dropout galaxy overdensity distribution around 570 faint quasar candidates at z ~ 4, based on the Hyper Suprime-Cam Subaru Strategic Program survey. We compare the overdensity significances of g-dropout galaxies around the quasars with those around g-dropout galaxies, and find no significant difference between their distributions. A total of 4 (22) out of the 570 faint quasars, 0.7_{-0.4}^{+0.4} (3.9_{-0.8}^{+0.8}) %, are found to be associated with the > 4 sigma overdense regions within an angular separation of 1.8 (3.0) arcmin, which is the typical size of protoclusters at this epoch. This is similar to the fraction of g-dropout galaxies associated with the > 4 sigma overdense regions. This result is consistent with our previous work that 1.3_{-0.9}^{+0.9} % and 2.0_{-1.1}^{+1.1} % of luminous quasars detected in the Sloan Digital Sky Survey exist in the > 4 sigma overdense regions within 1.8 and 3.0 arcmin separations, respectively. Therefore, we suggest that the galaxy number densities around quasars are independent of their luminosity, and most quasars do not preferentially appear in the richest protocluster regions at z ~ 4. The lack of an apparent positive correlation between the quasars and the protoclusters implies that: i) the gas-rich major merger rate is relatively low in the protocluster regions, ii) most high-z quasars may appear through secular processes, or iii) some dust-obscured quasars exist in the protocluster regions.

3. [The properties of Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons in galaxies: constraints on PAH sizes, charge and radiation fields](https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.10114)

* Dimitra Rigopoulou et al.

Based on theoretical spectra computed using Density Functional Theory we study the properties of Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons (PAH). In particular using bin-average spectra of PAH molecules with varying number of carbons we investigate how the intensity of the mid-infrared emission bands, 3.3, 6.2, 7.7 and 11.3 microns, respond to changes in the number of carbons, charge of the molecule, and the hardness of the radiation field that impinges the molecule. We confirm that the 6.2/7.7 band ratio is a good predictor for the size of the PAH molecule (based on the number of carbons present). We also investigate the efficacy of the 11.3/3.3 ratio to trace the size of PAH molecules and note the dependence of this ratio on the hardness of the radiation field. While the ratio can potentially also be used to trace PAH molecular size, a better understanding of the impact of the underlying radiation field on the 3.3 microns feature and the effect of the extinction on the ratio should be evaluated. The newly developed diagnostics are compared to band ratios measured in a variety of galaxies observed with the Infrared Spectrograph on board the Spitzer Space Telescope. We demonstrate that the band ratios can be used to probe the conditions of the interstellar medium in galaxies and differentiate between environments encountered in normal star forming galaxies and Active Galactic Nuclei. Our work highlights the immense potential that PAH observations with the James Webb Space Telescope will have on our understanding of the PAH emission itself and of the physical conditions in galaxies near and far.

4. [The evolution of the size-mass relation at z=1-3 derived from the complete Hubble Frontier Fields data set](https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.10059)

* Lilan Yang et al.

We measure the size-mass relation and its evolution between redshifts 1<z<3, using galaxies lensed by six foreground Hubble Frontier Fields clusters. The power afforded by strong gravitation lensing allows us to observe galaxies with higher angular resolution beyond current facilities. We select a stellar mass limited sample and divide them into star-forming or quiescent classes based on their rest-frame UVJ colors from the ASTRODEEP catalogs. Source reconstruction is carried out with the recently-released lenstruction software. We derive the empirical relation between size and mass for the late-type galaxies with M∗>3×10<sup>9</sup>M⊙ at 1<z<2.5 and M∗>5×10<sup>9</sup>M⊙ at 2.5<z<3, and at a fixed stellar mass, we find galaxy sizes evolve as R<sub>eff</sub>∝(1+z)−1.05±0.37. The intrinsic scatter is <0.1 dex at z<1.5 but increases to ∼0.3 dex at higher redshift. The results are in good agreement with those obtained in blank fields. We evaluate the uncertainties associated with the choice of lens model by comparing size measurements using five different and publicly available models, finding the choice of lens model leads to a 3.7 % uncertainty of the median value, and ∼25 % scatter for individual galaxies. Our work demonstrates the use of strong lensing magnification to boost resolution does not introduce significant uncertainties in this kind of work, and paves the way for wholesale applications of the sophisticated lens reconstruction technique to higher redshifts and larger samples.

5. [A Catalog of 220 Offset and Dual AGNs: Increased AGN Activation in Major Mergers and Separations under 4 kpc](https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.10051)

* Aaron Stemo et al.

During galaxy mergers, gas and dust is driven towards the centers of merging galaxies, triggering enhanced star formation and supermassive black hole (SMBH) growth. Theory predicts that this heightened activity peaks at SMBH separations <20 kpc; if sufficient material accretes onto one or both of the SMBHs for them to become observable as active galactic nuclei (AGNs) during this phase, they are known as offset and dual AGNs, respectively. To better study these systems, we have built the ACS-AGN Merger Catalog, a large catalog (N=220) of uniformly selected offset and dual AGN observed by HST at 0.2<z<2.5 with separations <20 kpc. Using this catalog, we answer many questions regarding SMBH -- galaxy coevolution during mergers. First, we confirm predictions that the AGN fraction peaks at SMBH pair separations <10 kpc; specifically, we find that the fraction increases significantly at pair separations of <4 kpc. Second, we find that AGNs in mergers are preferentially found in major mergers and that the fraction of AGNs found in mergers follows a logarithmic relation, decreasing as merger mass ratio increases. Third, we do not find that mergers (nor the major or minor merger subpopulations) trigger the most luminous AGNs. Finally, we find that nuclear column density, AGN luminosity, and host galaxy star formation rate have no dependence on SMBH pair separation or merger mass ratio in these systems, nor do the distributions of these values differ significantly from that of the overall AGN population.

## Nov. 24

1. [Bulge formation through disc instability -- I](https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.11629)

* Timothée Devergne et al.

We use simulations to study the growth of a pseudobulge in an isolated thin exponential stellar disc embedded in a static spherical halo. We observe a transition from later to earlier morphological types and an increase in bar prominence for higher disc-to-halo mass ratios, for lower disc-to-halo size ratios, and for lower halo concentrations. We compute bulge-to-total stellar mass ratios B/T by fitting a two-component Sérsic-exponential surface-density distribution. The final B/T is strongly related to the disc's fractional contribution fd to the total gravitational acceleration at the optical radius. The formula B/T=0.5f1.8 fits the simulations to an accuracy of 30%, is consistent with observational measurements of B/T and f_d as a function of luminosity, and reproduces the observed relation between B/T and stellar mass when incorporated into the GalICS~2.0 semi-analytic model of galaxy formation.

2. [Possible ~0.4 hour X-ray quasi-periodicity from an ultrasoft active galactic nucleus](https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.11482)

* J.R. Song et al.

RX J1301.9+2747 is an ultrasoft active galactic nucleus (AGN) with unusual X-ray variability that is characterized by a long quiescent state and a short-lived flare state. The X-ray flares are found to recur quasi-periodically on a timescale of 13-20 ks. Here, we report the analysis of the light curve in the quiescent state from two XMM observations spanning 18.5 years, along with the discovery of a possible quasi-periodic X-ray oscillation (QPO) with a period of ~1500s. The QPO is detected at the same frequency in the two independent observations, with a combined significance of >99.89%. The QPO is in agreement with the relation between frequency and black hole mass (M_BH) that has been reported in previous works for AGNs and Galactic black hole X-ray binaries (XRBs). The QPO frequency is stable over almost two decades, suggesting that it may correspond to the high-frequency type found in XRBs and originates, perhaps, from a certain disk resonance mode. In the 3:2 twin-frequency resonance model, our best estimate on the M_BH range implies that a maximal black hole spin can be ruled out. We find that all ultrasoft AGNs reported so far display quasi-periodicities in the X-ray emission, suggesting a possible link on the part of the extreme variability phenomenon to the ultrasoft X-ray component. This indicates that ultrasoft AGNs could be the most promising candidates in future searches for X-ray periodicities.

3. [Placing High-Redshift Quasars in Perspective: a Catalog of Spectroscopic Properties from the Gemini Near Infrared Spectrograph -- Distant Quasar Survey](https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.10895)

* Brandon M. Matthews et al.

We present spectroscopic measurements for 226 sources from the Gemini Near Infrared Spectrograph - Distant Quasar Survey (GNIRS-DQS). Being the largest uniform, homogeneous survey of its kind, it represents a flux-limited sample (m<sub>i</sub> ≲ 19.0 mag, H ≲ 16.5 mag) of Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) quasars at 1.5 ≲ z ≲ 3.5 with a monochromatic luminosity (λLλ) at 5100 Å in the range of 10<sup>44</sup>−10<sup>46</sup> erg s−1. A combination of the GNIRS and SDSS spectra covers principal quasar diagnostic features, chiefly the C IV λ1549, Mg II λλ2798, 2803, Hβ λ4861, and [O III] λλ4959, 5007 emission lines, in each source. The spectral inventory will be utilized primarily to develop prescriptions for obtaining more accurate and precise redshifts, black hole masses, and accretion rates for all quasars. Additionally, the measurements will facilitate an understanding of the dependence of rest-frame ultraviolet-optical spectral properties of quasars on redshift, luminosity, and Eddington ratio, and test whether the physical properties of the quasar central engine evolve over cosmic time.

4. [Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons in Seyfert and star-forming galaxies](https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.10882)

* I. García-Bernete et al.

Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons (PAHs) are carbon-based molecules resulting from the union of aromatic rings and related species, which are likely responsible for strong infrared emission features (3.3, 6.2, 7.7, 8.6, 11.3 and 12.7 microns). In this work, using a sample of Seyfert galaxies (DL<100 Mpc), we compare the circumnuclear (inner kpc) PAH emission of AGN and star-forming (SF) control samples, and we investigate the difference between the central and extended PAH properties. We employ newly developed PAH diagnostic model grids, derived from theoretical spectra, to compare the predicted and observed PAH ratios. We use Spitzer/InfraRed Spectrograph spectral data for a large sample of Seyfert galaxies and SF galaxies. In general we find that SF galaxies and powerful Seyfert galaxies are located in different regions of the PAH diagnostic diagram, which indicates that the size and charge of the PAH molecules but also the nature and hardness of the radiation field that excite them are different. Our work indicates that powerful AGN seem to favour larger PAH molecules (Nc>400) as well as neutral species. By subtracting the central from the total spectra we are able to compare the PAH emission in the central/extended region of a small sample of AGN. In contrast with the findings for central regions of AGN-dominated systems, we find that the extended emission of both Seyfert types has similar PAH molecular size distribution and ionized fraction of molecules than in central regions of SF galaxies (100< Nc< 300).

5. [Hi intensity mapping with MeerKAT: Primary beam effects on foreground cleaning](https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.10815)

* Siyambonga D. Matshawule et al.

Upcoming and future neutral hydrogen Intensity Mapping surveys offer a great opportunity to constrain cosmology in the post-reionization Universe, provided a good accuracy is achieved in the separation between the strong foregrounds and the cosmological signal. Cleaning methods rely on the frequency smoothness of the foregrounds and are often applied under the assumption of a simplistic Gaussian primary beam. In this work, we test the cleaning in the presence of a realistic primary beam model with a non trivial frequency dependence. We focus on the Square Kilometre Array precursor MeerKAT telescope and simulate a single-dish wide area survey. We consider the main foreground components, including an accurate full sky point source catalogue. We find that the coupling between beam sidelobes and the foreground structure can complicate the cleaning. However, when the beam frequency dependence is smooth, we show that the cleaning is only problematic if the far sidelobes are unexpectedly large. Even in that case, a proper reconstruction is possible if the strongest point sources are removed and the cleaning is more aggressive. We then consider a non-trivial frequency dependence: a sinusoidal type feature in the beam width that is present in the MeerKAT beam and is expected in most dishes, including SKA1-MID. Such a feature, coupling with the foreground emission, biases the reconstruction of the signal across frequency, potentially impacting the cosmological analysis. Interestingly, such contamination is present at a lower level even when no point sources are included and the beam is Gaussian, showing that this frequency ripple can be problematic even within the main lobe. We show that this effect is constrained to a narrow region in k∥ space and can be reduced if the maps are carefully re-smoothed to a common lower resolution.

6. [The emergence of passive galaxies in the early Universe](https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.10584)

* P. Santini et al.

The emergence of passive galaxies in the early Universe results from the interplay among the physical processes responsible for their rapid assembly and for the abrupt shut-down of their SF. Investigating the individual properties and demographics of early passive galaxies will improve our understanding of these mechanisms. In this work we present a follow-up analysis of the z>3 passive galaxy candidates selected by Merlin et al. (2019) in the CANDELS fields. We begin by first confirming the accuracy of their passive classification by exploiting their sub-mm emission to demonstrate the lack of ongoing SF. Using archival ALMA observations we are able to confirm at least 61% of the observed candidates as passive. While the remainder lack sufficiently deep data for confirmation, we are able to validate the entire sample in a statistical sense. We then estimate the Stellar Mass Function (SMF) of all 101 passive candidates in three redshift bins from z=5 to z=3. We adopt a stepwise approach that has the advantage of taking into account photometric errors, mass completeness and the Eddington bias without any a-posteriori correction. We observe a pronounced evolution in the SMF around z~4, indicating that we are witnessing the emergence of the passive population at this epoch. Massive (M>10^11Msun) passive galaxies, only accounting for a small (<20%) fraction of galaxies at z>4, become dominant at later epochs. Thanks to a combination of photometric quality, sample selection and methodology, we overall find a higher density of passive galaxies than previous works. The comparison with theoretical predictions, despite a qualitative agreement, denotes a still incomplete understanding of the physical processes responsible for the formation of these galaxies. Finally, we extrapolate our results to predict the number of early passive galaxies expected in surveys carried out with future facilities.

7. [Interstellar and Circumgalactic Properties of an Unseen z=6.84 Galaxy: Abundances, Ionization, and Heating in the Earliest Known Quasar Absorber](https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.10582)

* Robert A. Simcoe et al.

We analyze relative abundances and ionization conditions in a strong absorption system at z=6.84, seen in the spectrum of the z=7.54 background quasar ULAS J134208.10+092838.61. Singly ionized C, Si, Fe, Mg, and Al measurements are consistent with a warm neutral medium that is metal-poor but not chemically pristine. Firm non-detections of C IV and Si IV imply that any warm ionized phase of the IGM or CGM has not yet been enriched past the ultra-metal-poor regime (<0.001Z_{solar}), unlike lower redshift DLAs where these lines are nearly ubiquitous. Relative abundances of the heavy elements 794 Myr after the Big Bang resemble those of metal-poor damped Lyman Alpha systems at intermediate redshift and Milky Way halo stars, and show no evidence of enhanced [alpha/Fe], [C/Fe] or other signatures of yields dominated by massive stars. A detection of the CII* fine structure line reveals local sources of excitation from heating, beyond the level of photo-excitation supplied by the CMB. We estimate the total and [CII] cooling rates, balancing against ISM heating sources to develop an heuristic two-phase model of the neutral medium. The implied heating requires a surface density of star formation slightly exceeding that of the Milky Way but not at the level of a strong starburst. For a typical (assumed) NHI=10^{20.6}, an abundance of [Fe/H]=-2.2 matches the columns of species in the neutral phase. To remain undetected in C IV, a warm ionized phase would either need much lower [C/H]<-4.2 over an absorption path of 1 kpc, or else a very small absorption path (a few pc). While still speculative, these results suggest a significant reduction in heavy element enrichment outside of neutral star forming regions of the ISM, as would be expected in early stages of galactic chemical evolution.

## Nov. 25

1. [Chemical abundances of Seyfert 2 AGNs IV. Composite models calculated by photoionization + shocks](https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.12103)

* O. L. Dors et al.

We build detailed composite models of photoionization and shock ionization based on the SUMA code to reproduce emission lines emitted from the Narrow Line Regions (NLR) of Seyfert 2 nuclei. The aim of this work is to investigate diagram AGN positions according to shock parameters, shock effects on the gas temperature and ionization structures and derive a semi-empirical abundance calibration based on emission-line ratios little sensitive to the shock presence. The models were used to reproduce optical (3000 < A < 7000) emission line intensities of 244 local (z < 0.4) Seyfert 2s, whose observational data were selected from Sloan Digital Sky Survey DR7. Our models suggest that shocks in Seyfert 2 nuclei have velocities in the range of 50-300 km/s and imply a narrower metallicity range (0.6 < (Z/Z) < 1.6) than those derived using pure photoionization models. Our results indicate that shock velocity in AGNs can not be estimated using standard optical line ratio diagrams, based on integrated spectra. Our models predict a different temperature structure and O+/O and O2+/O fractional abundances throughout the NLR clouds than those derived from pure photoionization models, mainly in shock-dominated objects. This suggests that, in order to minimize the shock effects, the combination of emission-lines emitted by ions with similar intermediate ionization potential could be good metallicity indicators. Finally, we derive two calibrations between the N/O abundance ratio and the N2O2=log([N II]6584/[O II]3727) and N2=log([N II]6584/H{\alpha}) indexes which agree with that derived from pure photoionization models.

2. [Physics of ULIRGs with MUSE and ALMA: The PUMA project I. Properties of the survey and first MUSE data results](https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.11676)

* M. Perna et al.

Ultraluminous infrared galaxies (ULIRGs) are characterised by extreme starburst (SB) and AGN activity, and are therefore ideal laboratories for studying the outflow phenomena. We have recently started a project called Physics of ULIRGs with MUSE and ALMA (PUMA), which is a survey of 25 nearby (z < 0.165) ULIRGs observed with the integral field spectrograph MUSE and the interferometer ALMA. This sample includes systems with both AGN and SB nuclear activity in the pre- and post-coalescence phases of major mergers. The main goals of the project are to study the prevalence of multi-phase outflows as a function of the galaxy properties, to constrain the driving mechanisms of the outflows (e.g. distinguish between SB and AGN winds), and to identify feedback effects on the host galaxy. In this first paper, we present details on the sample selection, MUSE observations, and derive first data products. MUSE data were analysed to study the dynamical status of each of the 21 ULIRGs observed so far, taking the stellar kinematics and the morphological properties inferred from MUSE narrow-band images into account. We also located the ULIRG nuclei, using near-IR (HST) and mm (ALMA) data, and studied their optical spectra to infer the ionisation state through BPT diagnostics, and outflows in both ionised and neutral gas. We show that the morphological and stellar kinematic classifications are consistent: post-coalescence systems are more likely associated with ordered motions, while interacting (binary) systems are dominated by non-ordered and streaming motions. We also find broad and asymmetric [OIII] and NaID profiles in almost all nuclear spectra, with line widths in the range 300-2000 km/s, possibly associated with AGN- and SB-driven winds. This result reinforces previous findings that indicated that outflows are ubiquitous during the pre- and post-coalescence phases of major mergers.

3. [AGN on the move: A search for off-nuclear AGN from recoiling SMBHs and ongoing galaxy mergers with the Zwicky Transient Facility](https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.11656)

* Charlotte Ward et al.

A supermassive black hole (SMBH) ejected from the potential well of its host galaxy via gravitational wave recoil carries important information about the mass ratio and spin alignment of the pre-merger SMBH binary. Such a recoiling SMBH may be detectable as an active galactic nucleus (AGN) broad line region offset by up to 10\,kpc from a disturbed host galaxy. We describe a novel methodology using forward modeling with The Tractor to search for such offset AGN in a sample of 5493 optically variable AGN detected with the Zwicky Transient Facility (ZTF). We present the discovery of 9 AGN which may be spatially offset from their host galaxies and are candidates for recoiling SMBHs. Five of these offset AGN exhibit double-peaked broad Balmer emission from an unobscured accretion disk and four show radio emission indicative of a relativistic jet. The fraction of double-peaked emitters in our spatially offset AGN sample is significantly larger than the 16\% double-peaked emitter fraction observed for ZTF AGN overall. In our sample of variable AGN we also identified 52 merging galaxies, including a new spectroscopically confirmed dual AGN. Finally, we detected the dramatic rebrightening of SDSS1133, a previously discovered variable object and recoiling SMBH candidate, in ZTF. The flare was accompanied by the re-emergence of strong P-Cygni line features indicating it likely is an outbursting luminous blue variable star.


## Nov. 26

1. [Revealing the Accretion Physics of Supermassive Black Holes at Redshift z~7 with Chandra and Infrared Observations](https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.12458)

* Feige Wang et al.

X-ray emission from quasars has been detected up to redshift z=7.5, although only limited to a few objects at z>6.5. In this work, we present new Chandra observations of five z>6.5 quasars. By combining with archival Chandra observations of six additional z>6.5 quasars, we perform a systematic analysis on the X-ray properties of these earliest accreting supermassive black holes (SMBHs). We measure the black hole masses, bolometric luminosities (Lbol), Eddington ratios (λEdd), emission line properties, and infrared luminosities (LIR) of these quasars using infrared and sub-millimeter observations. Correlation analysis indicates that the X-ray bolometric correction (the factor that converts from X-ray luminosity to bolometric luminosity) decreases with increasing Lbol, and that the UV/optical-to-X-ray ratio, αox, strongly correlates with L2500, and moderately correlates with λEdd and blueshift of CIV emission lines. These correlations are consistent with those found in lower-z quasars, indicating quasar accretion physics does not evolve with redshift. We also find that LIR does not correlate with L2−10keV in these luminous distant quasars, suggesting that the ratio of the SMBH growth rate and their host galaxy growth rate in these early luminous quasars are different from those of local galaxies. A joint spectral analysis of the X-ray detected z>6.5 quasars yields an average X-ray photon index of Γ=2.32+0.31−0.30, steeper than that of low-z quasars. By comparing it with the Γ−λEdd relation, we conclude that the steepening of Γ for quasars at z>6.5 is mainly driven by their higher Eddington ratios.

