## Dec. 1

1.[Active Galactic Nucleus Feedback in an Elliptical Galaxy with the Most Updated AGN Physics: Parameter Explorations](https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.15024)

* Zhiyuan Yao et al.

In a previous work, we have proposed a sub-grid model of active galactic nucleus (AGN) feedback by taking into account the state-of-the-art AGN physics, and used that model to study the effect of AGN feedback on the evolution of an isolated elliptical galaxy by performing two dimensional high-resolution (i.e., the Bondi radius is well resolved) simulations. In that work, typical values of model parameters were adopted. In the present work, we extend that study by exploring the effects of uncertainties of parameter values. Such a study is also useful for us to understand the respective roles of various components of the model. These parameters include the mass flux and velocity of AGN wind and radiative efficiency in both the hot and cold feedback modes, and the initial black hole (BH) mass. We find that the velocity of AGN wind in the hot mode is the most important quantity to control the typical accretion rate and luminosity of AGN, and the mass growth of the BH. The effect of the wind on star formation is less sensitive. Within the limited parameter range explored in the current work, a stronger AGN wind suppresses star formation within ~100 pc but enhances star formation beyond this radius, while the star formation integrated over the evolution time and the whole galaxy roughly remain unchanged. AGN radiation suppresses the BH accretion in a mild way, but dust is not considered here. Finally, a smaller initial BH mass results in a more violent evolution of the BH accretion rate. The corresponding AGN spends more time in the high-luminosity state and the percentage of BH mass growth is higher. Our results indicate the robustness of AGN feedback in keeping the galaxy quenched.

2. [A search for radio jets from massive young stellar objects. Association of radio jets with H2O and CH3OH masers](https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.14729)

* U. Kavak et al.

Recent theoretical and observational studies debate the similarities between the formation process of high-mass (>8 Msun) and low-mass stars. The formation of low-mass star formation is directly associated with the presence of disks and jets. According to this scenario, radio jets are expected to be common in high-mass star-forming regions. We aim to increase the number of known radio jets in high-mass star forming regions by searching for radio jet candidates at radio continuum wavelengths. We have used the Karl G. Jansky Very Large Array (VLA) to observe 18 high-mass star-forming regions in the C band (6 cm, ~1.0 arcsec resolution) and K band (1.3 cm, ~0.3 arcsec resolution). We have searched for radio jet candidates by studying the association of radio continuum sources with shock activity signposts. We have identified 7 as the most probable radio jets. The radio luminosity of the radio jet candidates is correlated with the bolometric luminosity and the outflow momentum rate. About 7-36% of the radio jet candidates are associated with non-thermal emission. The radio jet candidates associated with 6.7 GHz CH3OH maser emission are preferentially thermal winds and jets, while a considerable fraction of radio jet candidates associated with H2O masers show non-thermal emission, likely due to strong shocks. Our sample of 18 regions is divided in 8 less evolved, infrared-dark regions and 10 more evolved, infrared-bright regions. We have found that ~71% of the identified radio jet candidates are located in the more evolved regions. Similarly, 25% of the less evolved regions harbor one of the most probable radio jets, while up to 50% of the more evolved regions contain one of these radio jet candidates. This suggests that the detection of radio jets in high-mass star forming regions is larger in slightly more evolved regions.

3. [The Awakening Beast in the Seyfert 1 Galaxy KUG 1141+371 I](https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.14254)

* Jiachen Jiang et al.

KUG 1141+371 is a Seyfert 1 galaxy that shows a simultaneous flux increase in the optical and UV bands in the past decade. For instance, the latest Swift observation in 2019 shows that the UVW2 flux of the AGN in KUG 1141+371 has increased by over one order of magnitude since 2009. Meanwhile, the soft X-ray flux of KUG 1141+371 also shows a steady increase by one order of magnitude since 2007. The significant multi-wavelength luminosity change is likely due to a boost of mass accretion rate from approximately 0.6% of the Eddington limit to 3.2%, assuming a black hole mass of 108M⊙. In this work, we conduct detailed multi-epoch X-ray spectral analysis focusing on the variability of the X-ray continuum emission and the puzzling soft excess emission. In addition, our SED models also suggest a simultaneous increase of disc temperature and a decreasing inner disc radius along with the increasing accretion rate. Finally, we discuss possible connection between KUG 1141+371 and black hole transients in outburst.

4. [On the TP-AGB contribution to the light of nearby disk galaxies](https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.13989)

* Eric E. Martínez-García et al

The study of the luminosity contribution from TP-AGB stars to the stellar populations of galaxies is crucial to determine their physical parameters (e.g., stellar mass and age). We use a sample of 84 nearby disk galaxies to explore diverse stellar population synthesis models with different luminosity contributions from TP-AGB stars. We fit the models to optical and NIR photometry, on a pixel by pixel basis. The statistics of the fits show a preference for a low luminosity contribution (i.e., high mass-to-light ratio in the NIR) from TP-AGB stars. Nevertheless, for 30-40 % of the pixels in our sample a high luminosity contribution (hence low mass-to-light ratio in the NIR) from TP-AGB stars is favored. According to our findings, the mean TP-AGB star luminosity contribution in nearby disk galaxies may vary with Hubble type. This may be a consequence of the variation of the TP-AGB mass-loss rate with metallicity, if metal-poor stars begin losing mass earlier than metal-rich stars, because of a pre-dust wind that precedes the dust-driven wind.

## Dec. 8

1. [Evolution of Galaxy Star Formation and Metallicity: Impact on Double Compact Objects Mergers](https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.02800)

* Lumen Boco et al.

We study the impact of different galaxy statistics and empirical metallicity scaling relations on the merging rates and on the properties of compact objects binaries. First, we analyze the similarities and differences of using the star formation rate functions or the stellar mass functions as galaxy statistics for the computation of the cosmic star formation rate density. Then we investigate the effects of adopting the Fundamental Metallicity Relation or a classic Mass Metallicity Relation to assign metallicity to galaxies with given properties. We find that when the Fundamental Metallicity Relation is exploited, the bulk of the star formation occurs at relatively high metallicities even at high redshift; the opposite holds when the Mass Metallicity Relation is employed, since in this case the metallicity at which most of the star formation takes place strongly decreases with redshift. We discuss the various reasons and possible biases originating this discrepancy. Finally, we show the impact that these different astrophysical prescriptions have on the merging rates and on the properties of compact objects binaries; specifically, we present results for the redshift dependent merging rates and for the chirp mass and time delay distributions of the merging binaries.

## Dec. 9

1. [On the physics of UV absorption lines and their relations with Lyman continuum escape fractions](https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.03984)

* V. Mauerhofer et al.

The neutral intergalactic medium above redshift 6 is opaque to ionizing radiation, therefore one needs indirect measurements of the escape fraction of ionizing photons from galaxies of this epoch. Low-ionization state absorption lines are a common feature in the spectrum of galaxies, showing a diversity of strengths and shapes. Since these lines indicate the presence of neutral gas in front of the stars, they have been proposed to carry information on the escape of ionizing radiation from galaxies. We study which processes are responsible for the shape of the absorption lines, to better understand their origin. We then explore whether the absorption lines can be used to predict the escape fractions. Using a radiation-hydrodynamical zoom-in simulation and the radiative transfer code RASCAS, we generate mock CII 1334 and LyB lines of a virtual galaxy at redshift 3 as seen from many directions of observation. We also compute the escape fraction of ionizing photons in those directions and look for correlations between the lines and the escape fractions. We find that the resulting mock absorption lines are comparable to observations and that the lines and the escape fractions vary strongly depending on the direction of observation. Gas velocity and dust always affect the absorption profile significantly. We find no strong correlations between observable LyB or CII 1334 and the escape fraction. After correcting the continuum for attenuation by dust to recover the intrinsic continuum, the residual flux of CII 1334 correlates well with the escape fraction for directions with a dust corrected residual flux larger than 30%. For other directions, the relations have a strong dispersion, and the residual flux overestimates the escape fraction for most cases. Concerning LyB, the residual flux after dust correction does not correlate with the escape fraction but can be used as a lower limit. 

2. [The Origin of the Dust Extinction Curve in Milky Way-like Galaxies](https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.03978)

* Qi Li et al.

We develop a cosmological model for the evolution of dust grains in galaxies with a distribution of sizes in order to understand the origin of the Milky Way dust extinction curve. Our model considers the formation of active dust in evolved stars, growth by accretion and coagulation, and destruction processes via shattering, sputtering, and astration in the ISM of galaxies over cosmic time. Our main results follow. Galaxies in our cosmological model with masses comparable to the Milky Way's at z~0 exhibit a diverse range of extinction laws, though with slopes and bump strengths comparable to the range observed in the Galaxy. The progenitors of the Milky Way have steeper slopes, and only flatten to slopes comparable to the Galaxy at z≈1. This owes to increased grain growth rates at late times/in high-metallicity environments driving up the ratio of large to small grains, with a secondary dependence on the graphite to silicate ratio evolution. The UV bump strengths depend primarily on the graphite to silicate ratio, and remain broadly constant in MW-like galaxies between z=3 and z=0, though show slight variability. Our models span comparable regions of bump-slope space as sightlines in the Galaxy do, though there is a lack of clear relationship between the model slopes and bump strengths owing to small scale fluctuations in the bump strength. Our models naturally produce slopes for some non-Milky Way analogs as steep as those of the LMC and SMC in metal poor galaxies, though notably the bump strengths are, on average, too large when comparing to the Magellanic clouds. This owes to the fact that we evolve the grain size distributions of graphites and silicates simultaneously, which is an oversimplification. Our model provides a novel framework to study the origins and variations of dust extinction curves in galaxies over cosmic time.


3. [Extended HNCO, SiO, and HC3N emission in 43 southern star-forming regions](https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.04354)

* Yu-Xin He et al.

We have selected 43 southern massive star-forming regions to study the spatial distribution of HNCO 404-303, SiO 2-1 and HC3N 10-9 line emission and to investigate their spatial association with the dust emission. The morphology of HNCO 404-303 and HC3N 10-9 agrees well with the dust emission. HC3N 10-9 tends to originate from more compact regions than HNCO 404-303 and SiO 2-1. We divided our sources into three groups: those in the Central Molecular Zone (CMZ), those associated with bubbles (Bubble), and the remaining sources, which are termed 'normal star forming regions' (NMSFR). These three groups, subdivided into three different categories with respect to line widths, integrated intensities, and column densities, hint at the presence of different physical and chemical processes. We find that the dust temperature Td, and the abundance ratios of NHNCO/NSiO and NHNCO/NHC3N show a decreasing trend towards the central dense regions of CMZ sources, while NHC3N/NSiO moves into the opposite direction. Moreover, a better agreement is found between Td and NHC3N/NSiO in Bubble and NMSFR category sources. Both outflow and inflow activities have been found in eight of the sixteen bubble and NMSFR sources. The low outflow detection rate indicates that in these sources the SiO 2-1 line wing emission is either below our sensitivity limit or that the bulk of the SiO emission may be produced by the expansion of an H{\sc\,ii} region or supernova remnant, which has pushed molecular gas away forming a shock and yielding SiO.

 notes: 
 
        HNCO: good tracer of shocks.
 
        SiO: good tracer of molecular gas processed by high-velocity(20-50km/s) shocks in SF region. (provided by grain disruption by shocks)
        
        HC<sub>3</sub>N: good tracer of dense gas.
        
        HCO<sup>+</sup> J=1-0: for velocity study


## Dec. 10

1. [MusE GAs FLOw and Wind (MEGAFLOW) VII: A NOEMA pilot program to probe molecular gas in galaxies with measured circumgalactic gas flows](https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.04667)

* Jonathan Freundlich et al.

We present a pilot program using IRAM's NOrthern Extended Millimeter Array (NOEMA) to probe the molecular gas reservoirs of six z=0.6−1.1 star-forming galaxies whose circumgalactic medium has been observed in absorption along quasar lines-of-sight as part of the MusE GAs FLOw and Wind (MEGAFLOW) survey and for which we have estimates of either the accretion or the outflow rate. This program is motivated by testing the quasi equilibrium model and the compaction scenario describing the evolution of galaxies along the main sequence of star formation, which imply tight relations between the gas content, the star formation activity, and the amount of gas flowing in and out. We report individual carbon monoxide CO(4-3), CO(3-2) and dust continuum upper limits, as well as stacked CO detections over the whole sample and the three galaxies identified with outflows. The resulting molecular gas fractions and depletion times are compatible with published scaling relations established within a mass-selected sample, indicating that galaxies selected through their absorption follow similar relations on average. We further detect the dust continuum of three of the quasars and a strong emission line in one of them, which we identify as CO(4-3). Extending the sample to more galaxies and deeper observations will enable to quantify how the molecular gas fraction and depletion time depend on the inflow and ouflow rates.

notes:
       
       NOEMA: IRAM's Northern Extended Millimeter Array.
       M* ~ S<sub>0.5</sub> ~ V<sub>t</sub> and velocity dispersion.
       V<sub>t</sub>: red/blue shift.
       velocity dispersion: gaussian fit
       
## Dec. 11

1. [Revisiting the Integrated Star Formation Law. II. Starbursts and the Combined Global Schmidt Law](https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.05363)

* Robert C. Kennicutt Jr. et al.

We compile observations of molecular gas contents and infrared-based star formation rates (SFRs) for 112 circumnuclear star forming regions, in order to re-investigate the form of the disk-averaged Schmidt surface density star formation law in starbursts. We then combine these results with total gas and SFR surface densities for 153 nearby non-starbursting disk galaxies from de los Reyes \& Kennicutt (2019), to investigate the properties of the combined star formation law, following Kennicutt (1998; K98). We confirm that the combined Schmidt law can be fitted with a single power law with slope n=1.5±0.05 (including fitting method uncertainties), somewhat steeper than the value n=1.4±0.15 found by K98. Fitting separate power laws to the non-starbursting and starburst galaxies, however, produces very different slopes (n=1.34±0.07 and 0.98±0.07, respectively), with a pronounced offset in the zeropoint (∼0.6\,dex) of the starburst relation to higher SFR surface densities. This offset is seen even when a common conversion factor between CO intensity and molecular hydrogen surface density is applied, and is confirmed when disk surface densities of interstellar dust are used as proxies for gas measurements. Tests for possible systematic biases in the starburst data fail to uncover any spurious sources for such a large offset. We tentatively conclude that the global Schmidt law in galaxies, at least as it is conventionally measured, is bimodal or possibly multi-modal. Possible causes may include changes in the small-scale structure of the molecular ISM or the stellar initial mass function. A single n∼1.5 power law still remains as a credible approximation or "recipe" for analytical or numerical models of galaxy formation and evolution.

notes:

         New complexity: different slope and zero point in sb and non-sb galaxies.
         
         
2. [The evolution of the low-density HI intergalactic medium from z=3.6 to 0: Data, transmitted flux and HI column density](https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.05861)

* Tae-Sun Kim et al.

We present a new, uniform analysis of the HI transmitted flux (F) and HI column density (N(HI)) distribution in the low-density IGM as a function of redshift z for 0<z<3.6 using 55 HST/COS FUV (Delta(z)=7.2 at z<0.5), five HST/STIS+COS NUV (Delta(z)=1.3 at z~1) and 24 VLT/UVES and Keck/HIRES (Delta(z)=11.6 at 1.7<z<3.6) AGN spectra. We performed a consistent, uniform Voigt profile analysis to combine spectra taken with different instruments, to reduce systematics and to remove metal-line contamination. We confirm previously known conclusions on firmer quantitative grounds in particular by improving the measurements at z~1. Two flux statistics at 0<F<1, the mean HI flux and the flux probability distribution function (PDF), show that considerable evolution occurs from z=3.6 to z=1.5, after which it slows down to become effectively stable for z<0.5. However, there are large sightline variations. For the HI column density distribution function (CDDF, f proptional to N(HI)^(-beta)) at log (N(HI)/1cm^-2)=[13.5, 16.0], beta increases as z decreases from beta~1.60 at z~3.4 to beta~1.82 at z~0.1. The CDDF shape at lower redshifts can be reproduced by a small amount of clockwise rotation of a higher-z CDDF with a slightly larger CDDF normalisation. The absorption line number per z (dn/dz) shows a similar evolutionary break at z~1.5 as seen in the flux statistics. High-N(HI) absorbers evolve more rapidly than low-N(HI) absorbers to decrease in number or cross-section with time. The individual dn/dz shows a large scatter at a given z. The scatter increases toward lower z, possibly caused by a stronger clustering at lower z.

3. [Destruction of the central black hole gas reservoir through head-on galaxy collisions](https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.05700)

* Yohei Miki et al.

Massive black holes in the central region of galaxies radiate a vast amount of light as active galactic nuclei by releasing gravitational energy of accreting gas when a sufficient amount of gas accretes onto the massive black holes. Galaxy collisions have been thought to enhance nucleus activity, by triggering mass fueling to the central massive black hole through angular momentum transfer. Here we show that galaxy collisions are also capable of suppressing black hole fueling by using an analytic model and three-dimensional hydrodynamic simulations, applying the well-determined parameter sets for the galactic collision in the Andromeda galaxy. Our models demonstrate that a central collision of galaxies can strip the torus-shaped gas surrounding the massive black hole, the putative fueling source, away via momentum transfer between the torus gas and the infalling gas when the column-density of the infalling gas is higher than that of the torus. The derived condition for switching-off the black hole fueling indicates that a significant fraction of currently bright nuclei can become inactive, reminiscent of fading/dying active nucleus phenomena associated with galaxy merging events. Galaxy collisions may therefore be responsible both for switching-off and turning-on the nucleus activity, depending on the collision orbit (head-on or far-off-centre).


4. [What Determines Unique Spectra of Super-Eddington Accretors?: Origin of Optically Thick and Low Temperature Coronae in Super-Eddington Accretion Flows](https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.05386)

* Norita Kawanaka et al. 

Existence of relatively cool (kBT≲10 keV) and optically thick (τ≳3) coronae are inferred above super-Eddington accretion flow such as ultraluminous X-ray sources (ULXs), GRS 1915+105, and narrow-line Seyfert 1 galaxies (NLS1), which contrasts the cases in sub-Eddington accretion flows, which are associated with coronae with kBT∼100 keV and τ∼1. To understand their physical origin, we investigate the emission properties of the corona which is formed by the gas blown off the super-Eddington inner disk by radiation pressure. We assume that the corona is heated by the reconnection of magnetic loops emerged from the underlying disk. We show that this radiation pressure driven wind can act as an optically thick corona which upscatters thermal soft photons from the underlying disk, and that with a reasonable parameter set we can theoretically reproduce the coronal optical depth and temperature which are inferred by spectral fittings of observational data. By contrast, the coronal optical depth cannot be so high in sub-Eddington cases, since the coronal material is supplied from the disk via evaporation and there is a maximum limit on the evaporation rate. We support that the low temperature, optically thick Comptonization should be a key signature of super-Eddington accretion flow.

## Dec. 14

1. [The Fundamental Plane of Massive Quiescent Galaxies at z~2](https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.05935)

* Mikkel Stockmann et al.

We examine the Fundamental Plane (FP) and mass-to-light ratio (M/L) scaling relations using the largest sample of massive quiescent galaxies at 1.5<z<2.5 to date. The FP (re,σe,Ie) is established using 19 UVJ quiescent galaxies from COSMOS with Hubble Space Telescope (HST) HF160W rest-frame optical sizes and X-shooter absorption line measured stellar velocity dispersions. For a very massive, log(M∗/M⊙)>11.26, subset of 8 quiescent galaxies at z>2, from Stockmann et al. (2020), we show that they cannot passively evolve to the local Coma cluster relation alone and must undergo significant structural evolution to mimic the sizes of local massive galaxies. The evolution of the FP and M/L scaling relations, from z=2 to present-day, for this subset are consistent with passive aging of the stellar population and minor merger structural evolution into the most massive galaxies in the Coma cluster and other massive elliptical galaxies from the MASSIVE Survey. Modeling the luminosity evolution from minor merger added stellar populations favors a history of merging with "dry" quiescent galaxies.

## Dec. 15

1. [Mid-InfraRed Outburst in Nearby Galaxies (MIRONG) I: Sample Selection and Characterization](https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.06806)

* Ning Jiang et al.

The optical time-domain astronomy has grown rapidly in the past decade but the dynamic infrared sky is rarely explored. Aiming to construct a sample of mid-infrared outburst in nearby galaxies (MIRONG), we have conducted a systematical search of low-redshift (z<0.35) SDSS spectroscopic galaxies that have experienced recent MIR flares using their Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer (WISE) light curves. A total of 137 galaxies have been selected by requiring a brightening amplitude of 0.5 magnitude in at least one WISE band with respect to their quiescent phases. Only a small faction (10.9%) has corresponding optical flares. Except for the four supernova (SNe) in our sample, the MIR luminosity of remaining sources (L4.6μm>1042 erg s−1) are markedly brighter than known SNe and their physical locations are very close to the galactic center (median <0.1"). Only four galaxies are radio-loud indicating that synchrotron radiation from relativistic jets could contribute MIR variability. We propose that these MIR outburst are dominated by the dust echoes of transient accretion onto supermassive black holes, such as tidal disruption events (TDEs) and turn-on (changing-look) AGNs. Moreover, the inferred peak MIR luminosity function is generally consistent with the X-ray and optical TDEs at high end albeit with large uncertainties. Our results suggest that a large population of transients have been overlooked by optical surveys, probably due to dust obscuration or intrinsically optical weakness. Thus, a search in the infrared band is crucial for us to obtain a panoramic picture of nuclear outburst. The multiwavength follow-up observations of the MIRONG sample are in progress and will be presented in a series of subsequent papers.

2. [Evidence for GN-z11 as a luminous galaxy at redshift 10.957](https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.06936)

* Linhua Jiang et al.

GN-z11 was photometrically selected as a luminous star-forming galaxy candidate at redshift z > 10 based on Hubble Space Telescope (HST) imaging data. Follow-up HST near-infrared grism observations detected a continuum break that was explained as the Ly-alpha break corresponding to z = 11.09 (+0.08-0.12). However, its accurate redshift remained unclear. Here we report a probable detection of three ultraviolet (UV) emission lines from GN-z11, which can be interpreted as the [C III] 1907, C III] 1909 doublet and O III] 1666 at z = 10.957+/-0.001 (when the Universe was only ~420 Myr old, or ~3% of its current age). This is consistent with the redshift of the previous grism observations, supporting GN-z11 as the most distant galaxy known to date. Its UV lines likely originate from dense ionized gas that is rarely seen at low redshifts, and its strong [C III] and C III] emission is partly due to an active galactic nucleus (AGN) or enhanced carbon abundance. GN-z11 is luminous and young, yet moderately massive, implying a rapid build-up of stellar mass in the past. Future facilities will be able to find the progenitors of such galaxies at higher redshift and probe the cosmic epoch in the beginning of re-ionization.

3. [Spatially Resolved Properties of Galaxies with a Kinematically Distinct Core](https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.07345)

* Kiyoaki Christopher Omori et al.

Aims. Interacting galaxies show unique irregularities in their kinematic structure. By investigating the spatially resolved kinematics and stellar population properties of galaxies that show irregularities, we can paint a detailed picture of the formation and evolutionary processes that took place during its lifetimes. Methods. In this work, we focus on galaxies with a specific kinematic irregularity, a kinematically distinct stellar core (KDC), in particular, counter-rotating galaxies where the core and main body of the galaxy are rotating in opposite directions. We visually identify eleven MaNGA galaxies with a KDC from their stellar kinematics, and investigate their spatially resolved stellar and gaseous kinematic properties, namely the two-dimensional stellar and gaseous velocity and velocity dispersion ({\sigma}) maps. Additionally, we examine the stellar population properties, as well as spatially resolved recent star formation histories using the Dn4000 and H{\delta} gradients. Results. The galaxies display multiple off-centred, symmetrical peaks in the stellar {\sigma} maps. The gaseous velocity and {\sigma} maps display regular properties. The stellar population properties and their respective gradients show differing properties depending on the results of the spatially resolved emission line diagnostics of the galaxies, with some galaxies showing inside-out quenching but others not. The star formation histories also largely differ based on the spatially resolved emission line diagnostics, but most galaxies show indications of recent star formation either in their outskirts or core. Conclusions. We find a distinct difference in kinematic and stellar population properties in galaxies with a counter-rotating stellar core, depending on its classification using spatially resolved emission line diagnostics.

4. [Constraining the quasar radio-loud fraction at z∼6 with deep radio observations](https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.07301)

* Yuanqi Liu et al.

We carry out a series of deep Karl G. Jansky Very Large Array (VLA) S-band observations of a sample of 21 quasars at z∼6. The new observations expand the searches of radio continuum emission to the optically faint quasar population at the highest redshift with rest-frame 4400Å luminosities down to 3×1011 L⊙. We report the detections of two new radio-loud quasars: CFHQS J2242+0334 (hereafter J2242+0334) at z=5.88 and CFHQS J0227−0605 (hereafter J0227−0605) at z=6.20, detected with 3 GHz flux densities of 87.0±6.3 μJy and 55.4±6.7 μJy, respectively. Their radio \replaced{loudness}{loudnesses} are estimated to be 54.9±4.7 and 16.5±3.2, respectively. To better constrain the radio-loud fraction (RLF), we combine the new measurements with the archival VLA L-band data as well as available data from the literature, considering the upper limits for non-detections and \deleted{and} possible selection effects. The final derived RLF is 9.4±5.7% for the optically selected quasars at z∼6. We also compare the RLF to that of the quasar samples at low redshift and check the RLF in different quasar luminosity bins. The RLF for the optically faint objects is still poorly constrained due to the limited sample size. Our \replaced{result}{results} show no evidence of significant quasar RLF evolution with redshift. There is also no clear trend of RLF evolution with quasar UV/optical luminosity due to the limited sample size of optically faint objects with deep radio observations.


## Dec. 17

1. [A gaint central red disk candidate at redshift z=0.76](https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.08798)

* Kun Xu et al.

We report a giant red central disk galaxy candidate in the XMM-LSS north region. The region is covered with a rich variety of multiband photometric and spectroscopic observations. Using the photometric data of the Canada-France-Hawaii Telescope Legacy Survey (CFHTLS) and spectroscopic observation of the Baryon Oscillation Spectroscopic Survey (BOSS), we find that the galaxy has a stellar mass of ∼10^11.6 times of the solar mass M⊙. The galaxy has a red color and has an old stellar population, and thus its star formation has stopped. With the photometric image data of Hyper Suprime-Cam (HSC) Subaru Strategic Program, we demonstrate that its luminosity profile is perfectly described by a Sésic form with n=1.22 indicating disk morphology. We also analyze its environment based on the VIMOS Public Extragalactic Redshift Survey (VIPERS) photometric catalog, and find that its close neighbors are all less massive, indicating that our observed galaxy is sitting at the center of its host halo. Existence of the giant red central disk galaxy seriously challenges the current standard paradigm of galaxy formation, as there is no known physical mechanism to explain the quenching of its star formation. This conclusion is supported by state-of-the-art hydrodynamical simulations of galaxy formation.

2. [Giant radio quasars: sample and basic properties](https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.08857)

* Agnieszka Kuźmicz et al.

We present the largest sample of giant radio quasars (GRQs), which are defined as having a projected linear size greater than 0.7 Mpc. The sample consists of 272 GRQs, of which 174 are new objects discovered through cross-matching the NRAO VLA Sky Survey (NVSS) and the Sloan Digital Sky Survey 14th Data Release Quasar Catalogue (DR14Q) and confirmed using Faint Images of the Radio Sky at Twenty-Centimeters (FIRST) radio maps. In our analysis we compare the GRQs with 367 smaller, lobe-dominated radio quasars found using our search method, as well as with quasars from the SDSS DR14 Quasar Catalogue, investigating the parameters characterizing their radio emission (i.e. total and core radio luminosity, radio core prominence), optical properties (black hole masses, accretion rates, distribution in Eigenvector 1 plane) and infrared colours. For the GRQs and smaller radio quasars we find a strong correlation between [OIII] luminosity and radio luminosity at 1.4 GHz, indicating a strong connection between radio emission and conditions in the narrow-line region. We spot no significant differences between GRQs and smaller radio quasars, however we show that most extended radio quasars belong to a quasar population of evolved AGNs with large black hole masses and low accretion rates. We also show that GRQs have bluer W2-W3 colours compared to SDSS quasars with FIRST detections, indicating differences in the structure of the dusty torus.

## Dec. 18

1. [Observational Evidence for Enhanced Black Hole Accretion in Giant Elliptical Galaxies](https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.09168)

* Michael McDonald et al.

We present a study of the relationship between black hole accretion rate (BHAR) and star formation rate (SFR) in a sample of giant elliptical galaxies. These galaxies, which live at the centers of galaxy groups and clusters, have star formation and black hole activity that is primarily fueled by gas condensing out of the hot intracluster medium. For a sample of 46 galaxies spanning 5 orders of magnitude in BHAR and SFR, we find a mean ratio of log(BHAR/SFR) = -1.45 +/- 0.2, independent of the methodology used to constrain both SFR and BHAR. This ratio is significantly higher than most previously-published values for field galaxies. We investigate whether these high BHAR/SFR ratios are driven by high BHAR, low SFR, or a different accretion efficiency in radio galaxies. The data suggest that the high BHAR/SFR ratios are primarily driven by boosted black hole accretion in spheroidal galaxies compared to their disk counterparts. We propose that angular momentum of the cool gas is the primary driver in suppressing BHAR in lower mass galaxies, with massive galaxies accreting gas that has condensed out of the hot phase on nearly radial trajectories. Additionally, we demonstrate that the relationship between specific BHAR and SFR has much less scatter over 6 orders of magnitude in both parameters, due to competing dependence on morphology between the M_BH--M_* and BHAR--SFR relations. In general, active galaxies selected by typical techniques have sBHAR/sSFR ~ 10, while galactic nuclei with no clear AGN signatures have sBHAR/sSFR ~ 1, consistent with a universal M_BH--M_spheroid relation.

2. [A possible sub-kpc dual AGN buried behind the galaxy curtain](https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.09184)

* P. Severgnini et al.

Although thousands of galaxy mergers are known, only a handful of sub-kpc scale Super Massive Black Hole (SMBH) pairs have been confirmed so far, leaving a huge gap between the observed and predicted numbers of such objects. Here we present a detailed analysis of the Sloan Digital Sky Survey optical spectrum and of near-infrared diffraction limited imaging of SDSSJ1431+4358. This is a local radio-quiet type 2 Active Galactic Nucleus (AGN) previously selected as double AGN candidate on the basis of the double-peaked [OIII] emission line. The near-infrared AO-assisted observations were obtained at the Large Binocular Telescope with the LUCI+FLAO camera. We found that most of the prominent optical emission lines are characterized by a double-peaked profile, mainly produced by AGN photoionization. Our spectroscopical analysis disfavors the hypothesis that the double-peaked emission lines in the source are the signatures of outflow kinematics, leaving open the possibility that we are detecting either the rotation of a single Narrow Line Region (NLR) or the presence of two SMBHs orbiting around a common central potential. The latter scenario is further supported by the high-spatial resolution NIR imaging: after subtracting the dominant contribution of the stellar bulge component in the host galaxy, we detect two faint nuclear sources at r<0.5 kpc projected separation. Interestingly, the two sources have a position angle consistent with the one defined by the two regions where the [OIII] double peaks most likely originate. Beside the discovery of a promising sub-kpc scale dual AGN, our analysis shows the importance of an appropriate host galaxy subtraction in order to achieve a reliable estimate of the incidence of dual AGNs at small projected separations.

3. [Dust, gas, and metal content in star-forming galaxies at z∼3.3 revealed with ALMA and Near-IR spectroscopy](https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.09447)

* Tomoko L. Suzuki et al.

We conducted sub-millimeter observations with the Atacama Large Millimeter/sub-millimeter Array (ALMA) of star-forming galaxies at z∼3.3, whose gas-phase metallicities have been previously measured. We investigate the dust and gas contents of the galaxies at z∼3.3 and study how galaxies are interacting with their circumgalactic/intergalactic medium at this epoch by probing their gas mass fractions and gas-phase metallicities. Single-band dust continuum emission tracing dust mass and the relation between the gas-phase metallicity and gas-to-dust mass ratio are used to estimate the gas masses. The estimated gas mass fractions and depletion timescales are fgas= 0.20-0.75 and tdep= 0.09-1.55 Gyr, respectively. Although the galaxies appear to tightly distribute around the star-forming main sequence at z∼3.3, both quantities show a wider spread at a fixed stellar mass than expected from the scaling relation, suggesting a large diversity of fundamental gas properties among star-forming galaxies apparently on the main sequence. Comparing gas mass fraction and gas-phase metallicity between the star-forming galaxies at z∼3.3 and at lower redshifts, star-forming galaxies at z∼3.3 appear to be more metal-poor than local galaxies with similar gas mass fractions. Using the gas regulator model to interpret this offset, we find that it can be explained by a higher mass-loading factor, suggesting that the mass-loading factor in outflows increases at earlier cosmic times.

4. [A deep radio view of the evolution of the cosmic star-formation rate density from a stellar-mass selected sample in VLA-COSMOS](https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.09797)

* Eliab D. Malefahlo et al.

We present the 1.4GHz radio luminosity functions (RLFs) of galaxies in the COSMOS field, measured above and below the 5σ detection threshold, using a Bayesian model-fitting technique. The radio flux-densities from VLA-COSMOS 3-GHz data, are extracted at the position of stellar mass-limited near-infrared (NIR) galaxies. We fit a local RLF model, which is a combination of active galactic nuclei (AGN) and star-forming galaxy (SFG), in 10 redshift bins with a pure luminosity evolution (PLE) model. We show that the evolution strength is similar to literature values up to z∼1.6. Beyond z∼2, we find that the SFG RLF exhibits a negative evolution (L∗ moves to lower luminosities) due to the decrease in low stellar-mass sources in our stellar mass-limited sample at high redshifts. From the RLF for SFGs, we determine the evolution in the cosmic star-formation-rate density (SFRD), which we find to be consistent with the established behaviour up to z∼1. Beyond z∼1 cosmic SFRD declines if one assumes an evolving infrared--radio correlation (IRRC), whereas it stays relatively higher if one adopts a constant IRRC. We find that the form of the relation between radio luminosity and SFR is therefore crucial in measuring the cosmic SFRD from radio data. We investigate the effects of stellar mass on the total RLF by splitting our sample into low (108.5≤M/M⊙≤1010) and high (M>1010M⊙) stellar-mass subsets. We find that the SFRD is dominated by sources in the high stellar masses bin, at all redshifts.


## Dec. 21

1. [Far-Infrared Line Diagnostics: Improving N/O Abundance Estimates for Dusty Galaxies](https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.10054)

* Bo Peng et al.

The Nitrogen-to-Oxygen (N/O) abundance ratio is an important diagnostic of galaxy evolution since the ratio is closely tied to the growth of metallicity and the star formation history in galaxies. Estimates for the N/O ratio are traditionally accomplished with optical lines that could suffer from extinction and excitation effects, so the N/O ratio is arguably measured better through far-infrared (far-IR) fine-structure lines. Here we show that the [N III]57μm/[O III]52μm line ratio, denoted N3O3, is a physically robust probe of N/O. This parameter is insensitive to gas temperature and only weakly dependent on electron density. Though it has a dependence on the hardness of the ionizing radiation field, we show that it is well corrected by including the [Ne III]15.5μm/[Ne II]12.8μm line ratio. We verify the method, and characterize its intrinsic uncertainties by comparing the results to photoionization models. We then apply our method to a sample of nearby galaxies using new observations obtained with SOFIA/FIFI-LS in combination with available Herschel/PACS data, and the results are compared with optical N/O estimates. We find evidence for a systematic offset between the far-IR and optically derived N/O ratio. We argue this is likely due to that our far-IR method is biased towards younger and denser H II regions, while the optical methods are biased towards older H II regions as well as diffuse ionized gas. This work provides a local template for studies of ISM abundance in the early Universe.

2. [Unraveling the complex structure of AGN-driven outflows: V. Integral-field spectroscopy of 40 moderate-luminosity Type-2 AGNs](https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.10065)

* Rongxin Luo et al.

There is an ongoing debate on whether feedback from active galactic nuclei (AGNs) can effectively regulate the star formation activities in their host galaxies. To investigate the feedback effect of AGN-driven outflows, we perform integral-field spectroscopic observations of 40 moderate-luminosity (1041.5 < L[OIII];cor < 1043.1 erg s−1) Type-2 AGNs at z < 0.1, which present strong outflow signatures in the integrated [OIII] kinematics. Based on the radial profile of the normalized [OIII] velocity dispersion by stellar velocity dispersion, we measure the kinematic outflow size and extend the kinematic outflow size-luminosity relation reported in Kang & Woo (2018) into a wider luminosity range (over four orders of magnitude in [OIII] luminosity). The shallow slope of the kinematic outflow size-luminosity relation indicates that while ionizing photons can reach out further, kinetic energy transfer is much less efficient due to various effects, demonstrating the importance of kinematical analysis in quantifying the outflow size and energetics. By comparing the outflow kinematics with the host galaxy properties, we find that AGNs with strong outflows have higher star formation rate and higher HI gas fraction than those AGNs with weak outflows. These results suggest that the current feedback from AGN-driven outflows do not instantaneously suppress or quench the star formation in the host galaxies while its effect is delayed.

3. [The role of AGN in the structure, kinematics and evolution of ETGs in the Horizon simulations](https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.10182)

* M. S. Rosito et al.

It is well-known that feedback processes play a fundamental role in the regulation of star formation (SF) and, in particular, in the quenching of early-type galaxies (ETGs) as have been inferred by numerical studies of LambdaCDM universe models. At the same time, ETGs are subject to certain fundamental scaling relations, but the connection between them and the physical processes that effect ETG evolution remain unknown. This work aims at studying the impact of the energetic feedback due to active galactic nuclei (AGN) in the formation and evolution of ETGs. Especially, we assess to what extent modelling AGN feedback is necessary to reproduce observational constrains such as morphology, kinematics and the evolution of the main scaling relations. The Horizon-AGN and Horizon-noAGN cosmological hydrodynamical simulations were performed with identical initial conditions and including the same physical processes with the exception of the AGN feedback in the former. We select a sample of ETGs from both simulations using the same criteria and subject them to an exhaustive study regarding SF activity, kinematics and scaling relations. We find that galaxies from Horizon-AGN follow observed fundamental scaling relations (mass-plane, Fundamental Plane, mass-size relation) and reproduce, qualitatively, kinematic features such as the bimodality in the spin parameter distribution at z = 0. The specific star formation activity is within observed ranges when AGN is turned on. Instead, galaxies formed in absence of AGN feedback show differences with observations such as the departure from the Fundamental Plane (FP) of a group of galaxies that have an excess of stellar surface density, and a shallower mass-size relation populated by galaxies with young stellar ages.

